# 0.8.0.1

#### Published Apr 06 2021

> After a long and hectic development process, we are very excited to finally announce the public Beta release of Wolvenkit for Cyberpunk 2077. That's right everyone, Wolvenkit is no longer a myth! Though there have been many delays, we greatly appreciate the community and our patrons and contributors for sticking by us throughout the development process, and for the hard work by the many programmers, artists, and researchers that have made this whole project possible. So many incredible breakthroughs and discoveries have been made in Cyberpunk 2077 modding thus far, and we are excited to see what the community can do with the new capabilities that will be made available with the release of WolvenKit. Modders will now be able to browse game assets, browse, read, and edit most if not all file formats used by the game, manage projects, and more. As this is only the initial release, some features you may expect are still to come in future releases. By choosing to support us, you will be not only be enabling us to continue to develop Wolvenkit and add further functionality and tools for use by the community, but also gain access to exclusive posts and updates on the development process, as well as private community channels, voting power, behind-the-scenes content, and more. Even the smallest amount can help us to continue / spend more time on developing more tools.

WolvenKit has been completely refactored to migrate to a WPF solution from the Legacy WinForms build. Version 0.8.0.1 brings initial support for CDPR's latest video game Cyberpunk 2077. While we are planning to bring feature parity for Legacy WolvenKit versions, for now support for Witcher 3 projects is extremely limited. The initial feature set for the 0.8.x series focuses on the Asset Browser and Project Packing tool which enables us to efficiently rip assets and repack REDengine files into the _archive_ format.

## Mod Projects

* Initial implementation of the Project Explorer enables basic asset management for REDengine files added from Asset Browser.
* Initial implementation of the build pipeline. Files inside the Mod directory are packed into Cyberpunk format archive files. Optionally the user can choose to auto-install the packed archive file into their game folder.

## UI/UX

* The WolvenKit UI has been completely rewritten from scratch to transfer the code base from WinForms to WPF.

